~WRITING {.}
@Part 1 Question 1. (20 pts) (20)
#You have received an email from your English-speaking pen friend Rob. Write your answer in 120-150 words 

From: Rob
Subject: Festivals
Can you help me with a class project? I have to write about festivals in different countries, and the way people celebrate them. Can you tell me about your favourite festival in your country? What is it and when does it take place? How do people usually celebrate it? Why do you enjoy it?
Thanks,
Rob

Write your email. You must use grammatically correct sentences with accurate spelling and punctuation in a style appropriate for the situation.
Do not write any postal addresses.
/
[text]

Answers vary
@Part 2 Questions 2 – 5. (20 pts) (20)
#Write an answer to ONE of the questions 2-5 in this part.
You must answer this question. Write your answer in 120 – 180 words in an appropriate style.  

2. You see this announcement on an English-language website.

Reviews wanted
We are looking for reviews of online clothes shops. 
Write a review of an online clothes shop you have used recently. Explain what kinds of clothes it sells, how the prices compare to other shops and how easy it is to find what you want. Would you recommend this online shop to other people?
The best reviews will be published in next month’s magazine.
     Write your review.

3. Your English teacher has asked you to write a story for a competition
Your story must begin with this sentence:
It was dark and I could hear strange sounds all around me.
Your story must include:
•	 a jungle
•	 a treasure 
Write your story.

4. You see this announcement on an English-language website.

Articles wanted
The best holiday I have ever had
Where was your best holiday, and who were you with?
What did you do, and why was it so good?
We will publish the best articles on our website.
  Write your article

5. In your English class you have been talking about healthy living. Now, your English
teacher has asked you to write an essay.
Write an essay using all the notes and giving reasons for your point of view. Write your essay in 120-180 words in an appropriate style.
Schools are responsible for teaching young people all the skills they need to stay fit and healthy. Do you agree?

Notes:                 Write about:
                            1. exercise
                            2. food
                            3. ……. (your own idea)


/
[text]

Answers vary

