~READING {.}
@Choose the correct answer to indicate the word(s) CLOSEST in meaning to the underlined word(s) in the sentence.

#It’s very kind of you to help me solve the problem.
A.	good
B.	mean
C.	quick
D.	arrogant

#The first thing immigrants saw as their ship came into New York Bay was the enormous Statue of Liberty.
A.	very big
B.	tiny 
C.	generous
D.	wonderful

#Solutions should be suggested to prevent people from hunting wild animals. 
A.	stop
B.	encourage
C.	force
D.	help

#The new college is intended to improve the life chances of children in the inner city.
A.	opportunities
B.	criteria
C.	communities
D.	conditions

#Thanks so much for the presents you sent me for my birthday. They’re brilliant!
A.	wonderful
B.	generous
C.	boring
D.	expensive
 
@Choose the correct answer to indicate the word(s) OPPOSITE in meaning to the underlined word(s) in the sentence. 

#Sheylla looked really beautiful in her nice dress at her birthday party.
A.	ugly
B.	fashionable
C.	nice
D.	colourful

#The couple have saved a lot of money for their old age.
A.	spent
B.	built
C.	earned
D.	bought

#Be a smart shopper, choose your seafood responsibly.
A.	stupid
B.	intelligent
C.	generous
D.	mean

#My dad doesn’t want my sister to become a pilot. He has very out- dated views about jobs for women!
A.	modern
B.	old
C.	quick
D.	respectful

#My parents always encourage me to participate in social activities to gain more life experience.
A.	lose
B.	warn
C.	earn
D.	get


@Choose the word or phrase that best completes the sentence. 

#Last Tuesday, I ...... home late because of the traffic jam near my house.
A.	went	
B.	go	
C.	has gone	
D.	have gone

#The 31st SEA Games took ....... in Vietnam.
A.	place
B.	notice
C.	part
D.	role

#Many people just go fishing ....... fun, not because they want to catch fish. 
A.	for	
B.	with	
C.	on	
D.	about

#Recently, I ......very worried about my parents’ heath.
A.	have become
B.	became
C.	become
D.	had become

#It is difficult to ....... gymnastics because you must be very skillful and strong.
A.	do
B.	make
C.	go
D.	play

#Please don’t make so much noise.  I ....... 
B.am studying	
A.study	
C.have studied	
D.have been studying.

#Susan ....... as a nurse for 3 years before her marriage.
A.worked	
B.has worked	
C.was working	
D.has been working
#Mathematics ....... not an easy subject for everybody
B.is	
A.are 	
C.does	
D.will 
#I occasionally think of .......  my friends in New York.
A.visiting	
B.visit	
C.to visit	
D.to visiting
#Let’s go for a swim as soon as we  ....... the hotel.
A.arrive	
B.get	
C.reach	
D.come
#It’s important to have a sense of ....... or it’s easy to get depressed.
D.humour
A.laughter	
B.amusement	
C.comedy	
#I’m going to make a real effort to get ....... shape for the summer.
A.in 	
B.on	
C.of	
D.for
#Alice can’t stand waiting in queues. She’s very....... 
D.impatient
A.patient	
B.aggressive	
C.shy	
#Don’t ....... until tomorrow what you can do today
B.put off		
A.put on 	
C.put out		
D.put up with
#Although younger than the other children, she demanded ....... in the game
C.to be included
A.to include		
B.including	
D.include

@Choose the word whose underlined part is pronounced differently from that of the rest. 

#-
A.	abandon
B.	balanced
C.	camera
D.	badminton

#-
A.	eagle
B.	leather
C.	bread
D.	weather

#-
A.	lived 
B.	worked 
C.	finished
D.	watched

#-
A.	measuring
B.	earning
C.	learning
D.	searching

#-
A.	parks
B.	wings
C.	teachers
D.	titles

@Choose the underlined part in this sentence that needs correction
#My friends (A) often spend (B) his free time (C) watching TV or playing (D) games. 
/B
#(A)My brother (B) hasn’t  (C) played volleyball (D) since five years. 
/D
#The children (A) are listening to a French song (B) but they (C) don’t understand what it (D) is meaning. 
/D
#My mother always (A) gives me a (B) big hug before I (C) going to school in the (D) morning. 
/C
#It is very (A) difficult  (B) to find a (C) good job (D) nowaday. 
/D


@Choose the sentence which has the closest meaning to the original one. 
#She makes a better sister than girlfriend.
A.	She is more successful as a sister than as a girlfriend.
B.	Girlfriends are usually good sisters.
C.	His girlfriend is better than his sister.
D.	She tries to be a good sister and girlfriend.

#You can enrich your knowledge by reading newspaper.
A.	Reading newspaper makes your knowledge rich.
B.	Reading newspaper makes you know less.
C.	Reading newspaper makes you know more.
D.	Reading newspaper enables you to be rich.

#It’s careless of you to leave the luggage over there unattended.
A.	You shouldn’t leave the luggage over there unattended.
B.	You shouldn’t have left the luggage over there unattended.
C.	Leaving the luggage unattended is not permitted.
D.	You could hardly leave the luggage over there unattended.

#It’s Jack’s job to look after the tender plants in the garden.
A.	Jack is responsible for looking after the plants in the garden.
B.	Jack enjoys looking after the plants in the garden.
C.	Looking after the plants in the garden is liable for Jack.
D.	The plants in the garden give Jack opportunity to work.

#“That’s a lovely new dress, Jessica,” said her mother.
A.	Jessica’s mother complimented her on the lovely new dress.
B.	Jessica’s mother said she liked her dress.
C.	Jessica’s mother wanted to buy a lovely new dress.
D.	Jessica’s mother told her to buy that lovely new dress.

#Whenever you finish using the blender, wash it thoroughly.
A. The blender must be washed thoroughly after every use.
B. The blender should be used after washing thoroughly.
C. The blender can be used only after washing thoroughly.
D. The blender will be thoroughly washed for use.

#I always considered her to be my second mother.
D. She was always considered to be my second mother.
A. I was always considerate to my second mother	
B. I always considered if she was my second mother.
C. My second mother was always considerate to me.

#I have never met a more thoughtful person than Mrs. Jones.
B. Mrs. Jones is the most thoughtful person I’ve known.
A. Mrs. Jones is the more thoughtful person I have met.
C. Everyone else is less thoughtful than Mrs. Jones.
D. No one can compare with Mrs. Jones in terms of attitude.

#Barbara is the best tennis-player in the club.
C. No one in the club is better at tennis than Barbara.	
A. Barbara plays tennis the best in her family. 	 
B. Everyone in the club is better at tennis than Barbara.
D. Barbara plays tennis the better in the club

#It was such an expensive car that we couldn’t buy it.
C. The car wasn’t cheap enough for us to buy.
A. We couldn’t buy the car because it was very cheap.
B. The car was so expensive, but we still bought it.
D. The expensive car couldn’t prevent us from buying it

#“You should take more care of your health or you may regret it,” the doctor said to her.
A. The doctor advised her to take more care of her health or she might regret it.
B. It will be a good idea if she takes more care of her health, otherwise she might regret it.
C. The doctor recommended her taking more care of her health so that she wouldn’t regret it. 
D. She might regret taking more care of her health, which was the doctor’s advice to her.

#“Sorry I haven’t finished my assignment,” said Peter.
D. Peter apologized for not finishing his assignment. 
A. Peter apologized he hadn’t finished his assignment.
B. Peter said he hadn’t finished his assignment.
C. Peter said sorry he hadn’t finished his assignment.

#“What were you doing when I called last night?” said Sam’s mother.
A. Sam’s mother asked him what he had been doing when she called the night before.
B. Sam’s mother asked him what he had been doing when she called last night.
C. What was Sam doing at the time when his mother called last night.
D. Sam’s mother called last night but did not know what he was doing at that time.

#If you don’t follow your heart, you might spend the rest of your life wishing you had. 
B. Unless you follow your heart, you might spend the rest of your life wishing you had. 
A. If you didn’t follow your heart, you would spend the rest of your life wishing you had. 
C. If you hadn’t followed your heart, you might have spent the rest of your life wishing you had. 
D. Without following your heart, you would spend the rest of your life wishing you had.

#If we missed the flight, we wouldn’t be on the beach now.
C. We didn’t miss the flight and we are on the beach now.
A. We missed the flight but we are now on the beach.
B. We missed the flight and now we are not on the beach.
D. We were on the beach now we don’t miss the flight.

@Look at the text in each question. What does it say?

#. image1.png
 
C. Abdul would accept €100.
A. Abdul’s bike needs only a few repairs.
B. Abdul bought this bike two years ago.
#. image2.png
 
C. The first day students can pick up identity cards is 25 September.
A. Students should bring their identity cards with them on 25 September.     
B. Student identity cards are only available until 25 September.   
#. image3.png
 
B. There is security in this car park day and night.
A. The cameras are not operating at the moment.
C. This car park is only safe during the day.
#.image4.png
 
C. If you want to take something back, you must prove when you bought it.
A. You must wait for twenty days before you bring anything back here.
B. Everyone can get their money back for clothes they bought here.
#. image5.png
 
C. There is lunchtime discount for people over the age of 60.
A. Meals are half price between the hours of nine and five.
B. There is special food for people who are 60 years old.



@Read the text and questions below. For each question, tick the letter A, B, C or D to indicate your answer.
##x
BAKING BY SAM JARVIS, AGED 12
My grandmother loves making bread and cakes, and is always surprised that the rest of my family never does any baking. So my parents decided they’d take me and my younger sister on a course, so that we could all find out how to make bread - and pizza, our favourite food! We booked our places, and set off for Oakton Farm in the countryside.
It was a very long drive, and when we arrived we went straight to bed. The next morning we got up early, fed the ducks on the lake, and looked at the bull in the next field. Then we met our teacher, Michael, who seemed quite strict, and the other par-ents and children, who were really friendly.
The cooking part was brilliant. Michael gave us long white coats to wear, which we all felt a bit silly in. Then we all made bread rolls, mixing flour and water with our hands. My sister kept complaining at first. Then even she started to enjoy it, and to concentrate on following the instructions. Dad made lots of mess, I got flour on the floor and in my hair, and Mum didn’t even get angry! It took ages to make my rolls, though.
We finally put our initials on the bottom of each roll, then made some pizzas and decorated them, which was fun. And we didn’t even have to do the washing-up! For something to do while the pizzas were cooking, we all went for a swim in the lake. It was fantastic. Then we went back inside and ate our pizzas. They were the best we’d ever tasted!
//

#What is Sam trying to do in the text? 
B. describe how he enjoyed a day with his family
A. explain how to bake cakes.     
C. discuss the importance of knowing how to cook
D. inform readers about life on a farm

#Sam’s parents took the children to Oakton Farm because they wanted them to 
D. learn a new skill.
A. make something for their grandmother.	
B. meet other people the same age.
C. spend time in the countryside.		
	
#What do we learn about Oakton Farm?
C. It was far from where they live.	
A. It was just like Sam expected			
B. It had lots of animals living there.
D. It was run by a friendly man.

#What does Sam say about his cooking experience?
D. He could be untidy without getting into trouble.
A. He liked wearing the clothes he was given. 
B. He was better at it than his sister.
C. He was the first to finish.
			
#What might Sam write in a postcard to his grandmother??
B. We liked swimming in the lake - it helped to pass the time while we waited for our lovely pizzas to be ready.
A. I made some great bread rolls, but my sister ate them because we didn’t know who they belonged to.
C. We had to clean up the kitchen, like at your house. But we’ve made great pizza, just like you taught us.
D. I loved it, but my sister didn’t really. She found it hard to do what the teacher told her.
/#

##
People from different cultures have different space requirements.  For example, South Americans and Middle Easterners stand closer when they talk or sit together than North Americans or Asians.
In the United States, people need to have greater distances between them physically than people in many other cultures.  Although Americans are often more affectionate and more likely to touch people they know, they have a great need for privacy, especially in the presence of strangers.  For example, when Americans enter a bus, doctor’s office, or waiting room, they sit at least one chair away from the nearest person if possible.  Conversation distance with superiors or those they don’t know well is about 3 to 4 feet.  However, intimate conversations may be held as close as 1.5 feet apart.  Because Americans feel uncomfortable if someone stands closer, they will naturally move away.  Should this happen, don’t be offended.  Your listener is merely stepping back to his or her normal conversational distance.
(Adapted from “Cultures in the modern world”)
//
#How many main cultures are mentioned in the passage?
(A) 3
(B) 4
(C) 5
(D) 6
/B
#What does the word “them” in paragraph 2 refer to?
B. people in the United States
A. people in Middle East
C. the distances between people in the United States
D. the distances between people in South America
#Which of the following statements is TRUE about Americans?
A. The more formal a conversation is, the further they stand. 
B. They are more friendly so they stand closer than anyone else.
C. They like touching someone they know.
D. They are likely to show their feelings to the elderly.
#It is NOT inferred from the passage that _____
D. Americans are very sensitive in most situations.
A. The behavior of people from different cultures shouldn’t be judged in the same way.
B. Americans may automatically make a move to maintain their privacy.
C. In keeping their natural distance, Americans may make you feel hurt.
#Which of the following is the best title for the passage?
A.	Space Requirements in American Culture
B.	Spaces in Different Cultures
C.	American Privacy Habbits
D.	Conversational Rules in America
/#

@Read the text below and choose the correct word for each space. For each question, mark the correct word for each space
##
MAKING HONEY
Do you like honey? Honey is a product, and it is made (..........) honey bees. It has a special sweet flavour, which some people prefer to ordinary sugar. Sometimes, it is even possible to (..........) from the flavour what kind of flowers the bees visited before producing the honey. 
Have you ever (..........) about how honey is produced? Beekeepers – people who look after bees - are very important in the making of honey. They let the bees in their care produce (..........) honey than is needed. Then the honey can be removed without causing problems for the bees.  
Honey collection is an ancient activity, going back at least 10,000 years, and honey has (..........) increasingly popular nowadays as a healthy food.
//
#-
B.by
A.from 
C.with 
D.of 
#-
D.know 
A.answer 
B.take 
C.inform 
#-
C.wondered 
A.consider 
B.guessed 
D.doubted 
#-
D.more 
A.much 
B.many 
C.most 
#-
C.become 
A.gone
B.turned 
D.changed
/#

##
MY FAMILY
Of all my (.........), I like my aunt Emily the best. She's my mother's younger sister. She isn't married, and she lives alone in a small village near Bath. She's in her late fifties, (.........) she's still quite young in spirit. She has a fair complexion, thick brown hair which she wears in a bun, and dark brown eyes. She has a kind face, and when you meet her, the first thing you notice is her lovely, warm smile. Her face is little wrinkled now, but I think she is still rather attractive. She is the kind of person you can always ask for (.........) when you have a problem. 
She likes reading and gardening, and she goes for long walks over the hills with her dog, Buster. She's a very active person. She always makes something, mends something, or does something to help others. She does (.........) for some of the old people in the village. She's quite generous, but she doesn't like people who (.........) agree with her. I hope that I am as happy and contented as she is when I am her age.
//
#-
A.	relatives
B.	friends
C.	classmates
D.	family
#-
A.	but
B.	so
C.	also
D.	and
#-
A.	help
B.	sure
C.	need
D.	money
#-
A.	the shopping
B.	shopping
C.	shops
D.	shop
#-
A.	don't
B.	doesn't
C.	won't
D.	didn't
/#


##
CLIMAE CHANGE
Climate change is making serious effects in urban areas across the world, and it’s only going to get worse. A(n) (.........) team of researchers has used a new modeling technique to measure the heat. They found that the world’s cities (.........) warm up as much as 4.4 degrees Celsius by the year 2100.
To calculate the temperatures, a scientist at the University of Illinois and his fellow workers built a model for the climate of (.........), focusing on changing temperatures and humidity in urban areas. These two factors gradually and quietly create extreme heat. The process can be explained in the same way our bodies respond (.........) high temperatures. On sweating, our body is cooling down. (.........), humidity slows down the process. The more moist the air is, the less readily it allows sweat taken out from our bodies.
(Adapted from https://www.wired.com/story/)

//

#- 
C. international
A. national
B. native
D. internationality
#-
B. could
A. can
C. may
D. should

#- 
C. cities
A. countryside
B. places
D. grounds
#- 
D. to
A. with
B. at
C. on
#- 
C. However
A. In fact
B. Moreover
D. In contrast
/#


~WRTING {.}
@Writing {-} (20)

#What are the opinions on gun control?
/
Gun control has been a controversial issue for years. A vast majority of citizens be-lieve that if gun control is strictly enforced it would quickly reduce the threat of crime. Many innocent people feel they have the right to bear arms for protection, or even for the pleasure of hunting.
-	Show clear opinions  (10 points)
-	Use fluent Engish (10 points)

